.TH GITPROMPT 1 "" "" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
gitprompt \- fast Git\-aware shell prompt
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gitprompt
.RI [ command ]
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B gitprompt
is a fast, cross-platform binary that replaces the default shell prompt
with an informative one that shows the current Git repository state.
.PP
Integrate it with Bash by adding the following to your shell startup file
.RI ( ~/.bashrc
or
.IR ~/.bash_profile ):
.PP
.RS
.EX
eval "$(gitprompt init bash)"
.EE
.RE
.PP
When run without arguments,
.B gitprompt
writes the prompt string to standard output and exits.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B gitprompt init bash
Print the Bash shell integration script.
.TP
.B gitprompt config
Open
.I config.jsonc
in
.B $EDITOR
or
.B $VISUAL
(fallback:
.BR vim ).
.TP
.B gitprompt config reset [-y]
Reset
.I config.jsonc
to defaults.
Use
.B \-y
to skip the confirmation prompt.
.TP
.B gitprompt aliases
Open
.I git_aliases.sh
in
.B $EDITOR
(if installed).
.TP
.B gitprompt aliases enable
Load the git aliases into the current shell session.
Must be invoked through the shell wrapper (set up by
.BR "gitprompt init bash" )
so the aliases take effect in the current shell.
.TP
.B gitprompt aliases disable
Remove the git aliases from the current shell session.
Must be invoked through the shell wrapper (set up by
.BR "gitprompt init bash" )
so the changes take effect in the current shell.
.TP
.B gitprompt update
Update
.B gitprompt
to the latest release.
.TP
.B gitprompt update aliases
Update the git aliases file to the latest version.
.TP
.B gitprompt uninstall
Remove the binary, config, cache, and data files.
.TP
.B gitprompt debug
Show a diagnostic report for the current directory.
.TP
.B gitprompt paths
Show the paths to the binary, config, aliases, cache, and shell config files.
.TP
.B gitprompt \-\-help
Show help.
.SH CONFIGURATION
.B gitprompt
reads an optional
.I config.jsonc
file from the platform config directory:
.TP
Linux/macOS
.I $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/gitprompt/config.jsonc
(default:
.IR ~/.config/gitprompt/config.jsonc )
.TP
Windows (Git Bash)
.I %APPDATA%/gitprompt/config.jsonc
.PP
If the file is absent or cannot be parsed, all settings fall back to their
defaults.
Open it with
.BR "gitprompt config" .
.SS Cache
Controls how long
.B gitprompt
reuses cached results (in seconds; 0 disables caching).
.TP
.B cache.gitStatusTtl
Git status results. Default:
.BR 5 .
.TP
.B cache.repositoryTtl
Repository detection results. Default:
.BR 60 .
.SS Timeout
.TP
.B commandTimeoutMs
Milliseconds to wait for a Git subprocess before killing it and showing
.I [timeout]
in the prompt. Set to
.B 0
to disable. Default:
.BR 2000 .
.SS Command Duration
.TP
.B commandDuration.show
Show the elapsed time of the last command in the prompt (requires Bash 5+).
Default:
.BR true .
.TP
.B commandDuration.minMs
Minimum duration in milliseconds before the value is shown.
.B null
means always show. Default: none.
.SS Context Segment
.TP
.B context.showUser
Show the username in the prompt. Default:
.BR true .
.TP
.B context.showDomain
Prepend the Windows domain to the username (e.g.
.BR DOMAIN+user ).
Only applies when the username comes from
.B USERNAME
(Windows); has no effect when the
.B USER
environment variable is set. Default:
.BR false .
.TP
.B context.showHost
Show the hostname in the prompt. Default:
.BR true .
.TP
.B context.showPath
Show the working directory path in the prompt. Default:
.BR true .
.TP
.B context.maxPathDepth
Maximum directory segments shown in the path.
.B 0
means full path. Default:
.BR 0 .
.SS Prompt Layout
.TP
.B layout.multiline
Put the prompt symbol
.RB ( $ ,
.BR # ,
.BR ❯ )
on its own line. Default:
.BR true .
.TP
.B layout.newlineBefore
Add a blank line before the prompt. Default:
.BR false .
.TP
.B layout.startOfLine
Move to column 0 if the cursor is not there when the prompt renders.
Baked into the shell integration script at
.B eval
time; changing this setting requires restarting the shell or re-running
.BR "eval \(dq$(gitprompt init bash)\(dq" .
Default:
.BR true .
.TP
.B layout.symbol
Override the prompt symbol. Omit or set to
.B null
for automatic:
.B $
for regular users,
.B #
for root,
.B ❯
on Windows.
.TP
.B layout.prefix
Prepend a static string to the start of the prompt line (e.g.
.BR "\(-> " ).
.B null
or omitted means no prefix.
.SS Git Status Icons
Set any key to a string to override the icon; set to
.B null
to restore the default.
.TP
.B icons.ahead
Commits ahead of upstream. Default:
.BR \(ua .
.TP
.B icons.behind
Commits behind upstream. Default:
.BR \(da .
.TP
.B icons.added
Added files. Default:
.BR + .
.TP
.B icons.modified
Modified files. Default:
.BR ~ .
.TP
.B icons.renamed
Renamed files. Default:
.BR \(-> .
.TP
.B icons.deleted
Deleted files. Default:
.BR \- .
.TP
.B icons.untracked
Untracked files. Default:
.BR ? .
.TP
.B icons.conflicts
Merge conflicts. Default:
.BR ! .
.TP
.B icons.stash
Stash entries. Default:
.BR @ .
.TP
.B icons.dirty
Dirty indicator shown when there are unstaged, untracked, or conflict changes (compact mode only). Default:
.BR \(bu .
.TP
.B icons.dirtyStaged
Dirty indicator shown when all changes are staged but not yet committed (compact mode only). Default:
.BR \(bu .
.TP
.B icons.clean
Clean indicator (compact mode only). Default:
.BR \[u2713] .
.TP
.B icons.noUpstreamMarker
Prefix on branch name when there is no upstream. Default:
.BR * .
.TP
.B icons.detachedHeadMarker
Prefix on branch name when HEAD is detached. Default:
.BR : .
.TP
.B icons.branchLabelOpen
Opening bracket around the branch name (overrides all states when set). Default:
.BR ( .
.TP
.B icons.branchLabelClose
Closing bracket around the branch name (overrides all states when set). Default:
.BR ) .
.TP
.B icons.branchLabelOpenNormal
Opening bracket for a normal (tracked) branch. Default:
.BR ( .
.TP
.B icons.branchLabelCloseNormal
Closing bracket for a normal (tracked) branch. Default:
.BR ) .
.TP
.B icons.branchLabelOpenNoUpstream
Opening bracket when there is no upstream. Default:
.BR ( .
.TP
.B icons.branchLabelCloseNoUpstream
Closing bracket when there is no upstream. Default:
.BR ) .
.TP
.B icons.branchLabelOpenDetached
Opening bracket when HEAD is detached. Default:
.BR [ .
.TP
.B icons.branchLabelCloseDetached
Closing bracket when HEAD is detached. Default:
.BR ] .
.TP
.B icons.branchOperationSeparator
Separator between branch name and in-progress operation. Default:
.BR | .
.SS Colors
Customize prompt segment colors using
.B #RRGGBB
hex strings. Set to
.B null
to restore the default.
.TP
.B colors.user
Username. Default:
.BR #00BB00 .
.TP
.B colors.host
Hostname. Default:
.BR #CB06B2 .
.TP
.B colors.path
Working directory. Default:
.BR #D78700 .
.TP
.B colors.commandDuration
Last command duration. Default:
.BR #CB06B2 .
.TP
.B colors.branch
Branch name (tracked). Default:
.BR #48A8CD .
.TP
.B colors.branchNoUpstream
Branch name (no upstream). Default:
.BR #48A8CD .
.TP
.B colors.branchDetached
Branch name (detached HEAD). Default:
.BR #DDDD00 .
.TP
.B colors.ahead
Commits-ahead indicator. Default:
.BR #48A8CD .
.TP
.B colors.behind
Commits-behind indicator. Default:
.BR #48A8CD .
.TP
.B colors.staged
Staged changes. Default:
.BR #00BB00 .
.TP
.B colors.unstaged
Unstaged changes. Default:
.BR #CC0000 .
.TP
.B colors.untracked
Untracked files. Default:
.BR #CC0000 .
.TP
.B colors.stash
Stash entries. Default:
.BR #CB06B2 .
.TP
.B colors.conflict
Merge conflicts. Default:
.BR #FF5555 .
.TP
.B colors.dirty
Dirty indicator color — shown when there are unstaged, untracked, or conflict changes (compact mode only). Default:
.BR #D78700 .
.TP
.B colors.dirtyStaged
Dirty indicator color — shown when all changes are staged but not yet committed (compact mode only). Default:
.BR #00BB00 .
.TP
.B colors.clean
Clean indicator (compact mode only). Default:
.BR #00BB00 .
.TP
.B colors.missingPath
Missing working directory. Default:
.BR #FF5555 .
.TP
.B colors.timeout
Git timeout indicator. Default:
.BR #FFA002 .
.TP
.B colors.promptSymbol
Prompt symbol color. Default:
.BR #AAAAAA .
.TP
.B colors.prefix
Color of the prefix string set by
.BR layout.prefix .
Default:
.BR #AAAAAA .
.SS Compact Mode
When enabled, the git status segment shows only the branch name, ahead/behind counts,
and a single status indicator instead of the full breakdown of file counts.
Ahead/behind counts and stash entries are still shown.
.PP
The status indicator has three states:
.TP
Clean
Nothing to commit. Shown with
.B icons.clean
in
.BR colors.clean .
.TP
Dirty \(em staged
Changes exist but all are staged, ready to commit. Shown with
.B icons.dirtyStaged
in
.BR colors.dirtyStaged .
.TP
Dirty \(em unstaged
Unstaged, untracked, or conflict changes are present. Shown with
.B icons.dirty
in
.BR colors.dirty .
.TP
.B compact
Show only a dirty/clean indicator instead of the full staged/unstaged file counts.
Default:
.BR false .
.TP
.B showStash
Show the stash entry count in the prompt. Applies to both full and compact modes. Default:
.BR true .
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.local/bin/gitprompt
Binary (Linux/macOS).
.TP
.I ~/.config/gitprompt/config.jsonc
Configuration file (Linux/macOS).
.TP
.I ~/.local/share/gitprompt/git_aliases.sh
Git aliases file.
.TP
.I ~/.local/share/man/man1/gitprompt.1
This man page.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Add to
.I ~/.bashrc
or
.IR ~/.bash_profile :
.PP
.RS
.EX
eval "$(gitprompt init bash)"
.EE
.RE
.PP
Open the config file:
.PP
.RS
.EX
gitprompt config
.EE
.RE
.PP
Update to the latest release:
.PP
.RS
.EX
gitprompt update
.EE
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR git (1),
.BR bash (1)
